Hello. 

The current FFMPEG h264_v4l2m2m encoder (which people use on Raspberry Pi 3+) 
has a few issues, mostly to do with Options and what the underpinning linux
v4l2 driver currently accepts and rejects.
Additionally, there is inaccurate information posted on the net about 
the options it accepts/uses, which some people seem have taken as gospel.

Some Issues with the current (h264)_v4l2m2m encoder:
1. -profile only accepts a number and rejects modern "-profile high"
2. only a restricted set of -profiles are accepted by the driver
3. only a restricted set of -levels are accepted by the driver
4. b-frames are not settabe by the driver
5. rate control mode allows VBR and CBR which is settable, however CBR causes the encoder to abort
6. rate control mode VBR should allow setting of peak_bitrate, however it
   cannot be specified and the driver does not accept it
7. -g is not settable by the driver (it is an urban myth that it works)
   ... the h264 iframe_period is not a replacement but may be close enough
8. ffmpeg's "non -g" means of forcing i-frames at intervals is another urban myth
9. the current ffmpeg default for repeat sequence header is built
   in the Pi Foundation repositories with a patch to permanently turn it on 
10. some options are not used by the encoder (eg Sequence_header_mode)
11. somehow, ffmpeg with this encoder always yields VFR rather than CFR
    even with Constant Frame Rate input

This Linux command shows (mostly) settable options:
v4l2-ctl --list-ctrls-menu -d 11

This thread has some relevant info from a Raspberry Pi Foundation developer
https://github.com/raspberrypi/linux/issues/4917#issuecomment-1058120137
A relevant spec is at:
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/userspace-api/media/v4l/ext-ctrls-codec.html

The proposed patch addresses:

0. AVOption private options are used to aquire and enforce 
   range and value checks and defaults on a per-coded basis
1. -profile accepts named options eg "-profile high" and implements value checking
2. only -profiles which are accepted by the driver are permitted
3. -velevs accepts named options, only those accepted by the driver are permitted
4. a warning is issued about b-frames b-frames which are not currently settable by the driver
5. rate control modes VBR and CBR can be specified 
   ... however CBR causing encoder to abort may be addressed in a future patch (if possible)
6. rate control mode for VBR "peak_bitrate" can be specified, and an attempt made to
   set it but a warning issued when that fails (hope the driver is updated to accept it)
7. -g will be accepted and over-write a new option -iframe_period 
   a new option -iframe_period will be accepted and set in the driver
   ... the h264 iframe_period is not a replacement but may be close enough
8. ffmpeg's "non -g" means of forcing i-frames at intervals
   remains unchanged, however see new -iframe_period option above
9. a new option to specifiy repeat sequence header is available with the
   default per the Pi Foundation repositories build of True
10. Sequence_header_mode is a new option with a default per the manual
11. yielding VFR rather than CFR
    ... is not addressed in this patch

Other :

12. possibly against ffmpeg standards, there are more comments in the code
13. the encoder is more instumented with AV_LOG_DEBUG statements
    ... negligible performance cost as it is during one-time setup
14. the encoder is more instrumented with AV_LOG_ERROR statements
    ... unexpected streams reduced for those that fire and not look
15. the encoder appears to be back-compatible with the current release
16. related v4l2m2m encoders, eg mpeg4_v4l2m2m have also minor updates

